- [Instructor] We learned about the basics concepts
of Docker Image, how an image can be built,
what is a build context.
Now, let's apply those concepts
and actually build a Docker image for our Java application.
As explained earlier, we're going to use
Dockerfile to build our application.
Here, this is a Dockerfile, part of our maven repo.
This is the second file that we are explaining here now.
As you can see, this is a multi stage Dockerfile.
Here is my first from statement,
and here is my second from statement.
The first from statement is using maven as a base image.
And I'm specifying a tag that means
I want maven version three point five and jdk eight.
You can look at Docker Hub and see where these images
are available and what other tags are available
if you need a different version of maven.
I'm giving this stage a name, call it Build.
The first step here is taking a repository.tar.gz
which will generate in a second and copying it
to a specific directory in the maven image itself.
This directory is existing in the maven base image.
Then we take our application code and copy it
to the base image as well in the user source app directory.
We set that as a work directory and then give
the command call as maven, where we are referring
to the settings for maven and package the application.
Now this really leverages the maven repository
that we will generate locally and repurpose
that for creating your application package.
At this point, yes, we are using Dockerfile,
but it's using basic maven commands
to package your Java application.
Now comes stage two, because of the second from statement.
In this case, we are using openjdk as the base image
and we're using 8-jre as the tag.
We don't need the entire JDK or maven or class files,
none of that for our production image.
So we take open openjdk-8-jre as a base image,
we expose a port from the application.
8080 is where our application is running.
5005 is our debug port.
And we'll look at that a little bit later.
Then the first command is, from the build stage,
I'm just copying the cargo directory
into a specific directory here, and that OPT target
directory is now set up as a work directory.
Now remember everything that is generated
in my first stage is left behind and only the relevant
artifacts are copied from first stage,
my development stage, to my production stage.
I set up certain Java options here, this will be used
when we are debugging our application later.
And finally I fire up my application using Java -jar
and greeting.war because this greeting.war exists
in OPT target directory.
Now let's go to our terminal and create our local repo
and run the Dockerfile to build the image.
First of all, we'll go to our Get Hub repo
and copy the command that we need to run
to generate a local version of the repo.
So I'm going to copy this command here.
And go to my terminal, and paste this command.
This command is going to download
the maven repository, all the dependencies,
and package them locally into one file.
Depending upon the speed of your connection,
this could take a while, so we're going to speed that up.
So now in my app directory, I have a repository folder.
This is my entire maven repository that needs
to be packaged into the base image itself.
Let's go back to our browser and copy another command.
I'm going to tar this repository so that it can
be easily copied into my maven base image.
So let's give this command, and that's going
to create a repository.tar.gz for me.
If you recall from the Dockerfile, this is the file
that is actually being copied into my maven base image.
The next thing is to really run the Dockerfile
and create my Docker image now.
So let's go back to our browser and copy the command again.
The command here is Docker image build,
I'm building the Docker image, using -t,
I'm giving it a specific tag,
and .t being my app directory is my build context.
So let's give this command.
Now because the maven repository is already packaged
into your Dockerfile, it'll take a lot less time to build
the image, but it still needs to download all the base
images, such as maven, openjdk, and so on and so forth.
And this could again take a while based upon
your internet connectivity, so we'll just speed it up.
And our image has been generated now.
Let's take a look at the list of Docker images
that exist on our local machine now.
Of course, we have arungupta/greeting,
which was generated about 10 seconds ago.
In addition, we also have openjdk and maven
as the base images that were downloaded,
and that is a non-image, essentially,
that is an intermittent image
that was created by Docker itself.
But the key part is we generated our arungupta/greeting
image, ten seconds ago, the total size
is about 500 megabytes.
But all the build and the production images are done
using a single Dockerfile, using a multi stage Dockerfile,
so you don't have to download
any additional tools on your local machine.